---
layout: post
tags: [Python]
---
Github resource [here](https://www.github.com/Its-Yayo/Keypwn). 

## Table of Contents:
1. [Basics](#basics)
2. [Understanding the basics](#understanding-the-basics)
3. [Usages](#usages)
4. [Releases](#releases)

---

## Basics

Keypwn is a single keylogger tool written in Python for cryptography purposes. A keylogger is a surveillance technology to capture and record any keystroke the user's typing on an specific computer. 

Keyloggers are commonly used by crackers as spywares to capture sensitive data, Personal identifiable Information (PII), login credentials, etc. A distracted person would potentially be vulnerable once a keylogger is being deployed in his computer. 

What Keypwn is actually doing is deploying a mounted server once you deploy or run the app. The code will integrately record any kestroke you type until you quit the program. It will create by itself a .txt document with all the keystrokes you typed in and it'll be stored in the local project's folder. 

This tool is for cryptography purposes. It might not be risky for potencially attacks unless it'd be optimized to be stored in a simple Rubber Ducky drive. You must NOT practice these habits by any chance.

## Understanding the basics 

We have 2 functions aside. 

```python
def get_current_date_time() -> str:
    return datetime.datetime.now().strftime('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')
```

This function will be our first instance for the document by adding the exact current time the app has been deployed. The function ```time.strftime()``` will convert a tuple or struct_time representing a time as returned by gmtime() or localtime() to a string as specified by the format argument. 

```python
def write_to_log_file(key) -> None:
    global log_file
    keys = str(key)

    if keys == "'\\x03'":
        log_file.close()
        sys.exit()

    if keys == 'Key.enter':
        return log_file.write('\n')
    elif keys == 'Key.space':
        return log_file.write(' ')
    elif keys == 'Key.backspace':
        return log_file.write('%BORRAR%')
    else:
        return log_file.write(keys.replace("'", ""))
```

## Usages
Soon...


## Releases
Soon...
